README.md, before:

# MemCachier Documentation

Collection of various docs of ours that are around the web. The ones
in Heroku should be updated here first then pushed to heroku using the
`devcenter` tool (install via `gem install devcenter`).

This repo should be ground truth though, so for even the smallest
edit, save it here!

## Documentation Work Items

* Own as many articles on Heroku as possible (See list).

### List of Heroku articles mentioning memcached

#### Not Us (Couchbase)

* https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/memcache
* https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/java-webapp-runner

* https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/releases
* https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/facebook

#### Us

* https://addons.heroku.com/memcachier
* https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/django-memcache
* https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/advanced-memcache

* https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rack-cache-memcached-rails31
* https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/building-a-rails-3-application-with-the-memcache-addon

#### No one (i.e., more general articles about caching)

* https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/caching-strategies
* https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/http-caching-ruby-rails

Commit message:

Remove heroku articles as heroku is now ground-truth.

README.md, after:

# MemCachier Documentation

Collection of various docs of ours that are around the web. The ones

## Where is the authoratative version?

* For articles for our own website, the authoratative version is in
  this repo and the live version is considered secondary.
* For Heroku articles, the version stored with Heroku is considered
  authoratative. This is as the Heroku staff sometimes edits articles
  to update for markdown and other changes.

### Editing Heroku Articles

~~~~
devcenter pull https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/memcachier
vim memcachier.md
devcenter push memcachier.md
~~~~

## Heroku Articles

### Heroku Articles

https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/releases
https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/java-webapp-runner

#### No one (i.e., more general articles about caching)

https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/caching-strategies
https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/http-caching-ruby-rails

### Our Articles

https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/memcachier
https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/django-memcache
https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/advanced-memcache
https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rack-cache-memcached-rails31
https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/building-a-rails-3-application-with-the-memcache-addon
