documentation/misc/using_memcachier.md, before:


## Using MemCachier

Please refer to your client or framework documentation for how to use
MemCachier effectively.

MemCachier Guides:

  - [Advanced Memcache Usage](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/advanced-memcache)
  - [Building a Rails App with MemCachier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/building-a-rails-3-application-with-memcache)
  - [Scale Django with MemCachier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/django-memcache)
  - [Scale Laravel with MemCachier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/laravel-memcache)
  - [Scale Express.js with MemCachier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/expressjs-memcache)
  - [Rails + Rack::Cache + MemCachier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rack-cache-memcached-rails31)
  - [Java Webapp Runner Guide](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/java-webapp-runner)
  - [Heroku's Guide to Caching](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/caching-strategies)

Framework and Client Documentation:

  - [Dalli (Ruby Client) API](http://www.rubydoc.info/github/mperham/dalli/Dalli/Client)
  - [Rails Caching Guide](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/caching_with_rails.html)
  - [PHP Memcached client](http://www.php.net/manual/en/book.memcached.php)
  - [CakePHP Caching Guide](http://book.cakephp.org/2.0/en/core-libraries/caching.html)
  - [Pylibmc (Pytnon Client) API](http://sendapatch.se/projects/pylibmc/)
  - [Django Caching Guide](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/cache/)
  - [MemJS (node.js client) API](https://memjs.netlify.com/)
  - [Spymemcached JavaDocs](http://dustin.github.com/java-memcached-client/apidocs/)

Commit message:

Add title and description front matter

documentation/misc/using_memcachier.md, after:

---
title: "Documentation: Using MemCachier"
description: "A collection of resources on using MemCachier."
---

## Using MemCachier

Please refer to your client or framework documentation for how to use
MemCachier effectively.

MemCachier Guides:

  - [Advanced Memcache Usage](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/advanced-memcache)
  - [Building a Rails App with MemCachier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/building-a-rails-3-application-with-memcache)
  - [Scale Django with MemCachier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/django-memcache)
  - [Scale Laravel with MemCachier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/laravel-memcache)
  - [Scale Express.js with MemCachier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/expressjs-memcache)
  - [Rails + Rack::Cache + MemCachier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rack-cache-memcached-rails31)
  - [Java Webapp Runner Guide](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/java-webapp-runner)
  - [Heroku's Guide to Caching](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/caching-strategies)

Framework and Client Documentation:

  - [Dalli (Ruby Client) API](http://www.rubydoc.info/github/mperham/dalli/Dalli/Client)
  - [Rails Caching Guide](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/caching_with_rails.html)
  - [PHP Memcached client](http://www.php.net/manual/en/book.memcached.php)
  - [CakePHP Caching Guide](http://book.cakephp.org/2.0/en/core-libraries/caching.html)
  - [Pylibmc (Pytnon Client) API](http://sendapatch.se/projects/pylibmc/)
  - [Django Caching Guide](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/cache/)
  - [MemJS (node.js client) API](https://memjs.netlify.com/)
  - [Spymemcached JavaDocs](http://dustin.github.com/java-memcached-client/apidocs/)
