heroku_articles/README.md, before:

# Heroku Articles on Caching / MemCachier

Editing Heroku articles:

```term
$ vim heroku_articles/[NAME].md
$ ./build_heroku.sh [NAME]
$ devcenter push out/[NAME].md
```

The `devcenter` CLI can be found here: https://github.com/heroku/devcenter-cli

Web based articles admin interface is here: https://devcenter.heroku.com/admin

## Heroku Owned

  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/releases
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/java-webapp-runner
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/caching-strategies
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/http-caching-ruby-rails

## MemCachier Owned

  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/memcachier
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/django-memcache
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/advanced-memcache
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rack-cache-memcached-rails31
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/building-a-rails-3-application-with-memcache
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/flushing-a-memcachier-cache-on-deployment

Commit message:

Add note about creating new articles

heroku_articles/README.md, after:

# Heroku Articles on Caching / MemCachier

Editing Heroku articles:

```term
$ vim heroku_articles/[NAME].md
$ ./build_heroku.sh [NAME]
$ devcenter push out/[NAME].md
```

The `devcenter` CLI can be found here: https://github.com/heroku/devcenter-cli

Web based articles admin interface is here: https://devcenter.heroku.com/admin

*Note: new articles can only be created via the web based admin interface as they
need to be approved before they are published.*

## Heroku Owned

  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/releases
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/java-webapp-runner
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/caching-strategies
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/http-caching-ruby-rails

## MemCachier Owned

  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/memcachier
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/django-memcache
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/advanced-memcache
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rack-cache-memcached-rails31
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/building-a-rails-3-application-with-memcache
  - https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/flushing-a-memcachier-cache-on-deployment
