documentation/clients/php/php.md, before:


## PHP

**IF(direct)**
<p class="alert alert-info">
We’ve built a small PHP example here:
<a href="https://github.com/memcachier/examples-php">MemCachier PHP sample app</a>.
</p>
**ENDIF**

**IF(heroku)**
>callout
>We’ve built a small PHP example.
><a class="github-source-code" href="https://github.com/memcachier/examples-php">Source code</a> or
>[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.png)](https://heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/memcachier/examples-php).

>callout
>Heroku recently improved their PHP support, please see their
>[documentation](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/php-support)
>if you aren't familiar with the new model.
**ENDIF**

### PHP Memcached Client

We recommended you use the [PHP Memcached
client](http://www.php.net/manual/en/book.memcached.php) to connect with
MemCachier. It supports the full protocol and has great performance.
**IF(direct)**
We also recommend that you use the [composer dependency
manager](https://getcomposer.org/) for PHP, although that is up to you.
**ENDIF**

The `php-memcached` client is not a pure PHP client but a PECL extension that
makes use of `libmemcached`. You thus need to install `php-memcached` via your
OS package manager. In older operating systems you have to make sure libmemcached
has SASL authentication support enabled but for newer operating systems such as
Ubuntu 16.04 this is the default. After the installation you need to uncomment
`;extension=memcached.so` in `/etc/php/conf.d/memcached.ini` for the extension
to work.
**IF(heroku)**
On Heroku this dependency is already installed and configured.
**ENDIF**

**IF(direct)**
First, if using composer, you'll need to modify your `composer.json` file to
include the module:
**ENDIF**

**IF(heroku)**
First, you'll need to modify your `composer.json` file to include the
module:
**ENDIF**

```js
{
    "require": {
        "php": ">=5.3.2",
        "ext-memcached": "*"
    }
}
```

Next, ensure that your new requirements are "frozen" to `composer.lock` by running:

```term
$ composer update
```

**IF(heroku)**
For more information on enabling the extension and potential troubleshooting (e.g. when you don't have the `memcached` extension available on your local computer), refer to the [using optional extensions extensions](/articles/php-support#using-optional-extensions) section of Heroku's PHP reference documentation.
**ENDIF**

Then, you can connect to MemCachier using the client:

```php
require 'vendor/autoload.php';

// create a new persistent client
$m = new Memcached("memcached_pool");
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_BINARY_PROTOCOL, TRUE);

// some nicer default options
// - nicer TCP options
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_TCP_NODELAY, TRUE);
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_NO_BLOCK, FALSE);
// - timeouts
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_CONNECT_TIMEOUT, 2000);    // ms
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_POLL_TIMEOUT, 2000);       // ms
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_RECV_TIMEOUT, 750 * 1000); // us
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_SEND_TIMEOUT, 750 * 1000); // us
// - better failover
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_DISTRIBUTION, Memcached::DISTRIBUTION_CONSISTENT);
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_LIBKETAMA_COMPATIBLE, TRUE);
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_RETRY_TIMEOUT, 2);
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_SERVER_FAILURE_LIMIT, 1);
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_AUTO_EJECT_HOSTS, TRUE);

// setup authentication
$m->setSaslAuthData( getenv("MEMCACHIER_USERNAME")
                   , getenv("MEMCACHIER_PASSWORD") );

// We use a consistent connection to memcached, so only add in the
// servers first time through otherwise we end up duplicating our
// connections to the server.
if (!$m->getServerList()) {
    // parse server config
    $servers = explode(",", getenv("MEMCACHIER_SERVERS"));
    foreach ($servers as $s) {
        $parts = explode(":", $s);
        $m->addServer($parts[0], $parts[1]);
    }
}
```

**IF(direct)**
<p class="alert alert-info">
The values for <code>MEMCACHIER_SERVERS</code>, <code>MEMCACHIER_USERNAME</code>, and
<code>MEMCACHIER_PASSWORD</code> are listed on your
<a href="https://www.memcachier.com/caches">cache overview page</a>. Make sure to add them
to your environment.
</p>
**ENDIF**

You should look at the PHP [Memcached client
documentation](http://www.php.net/manual/en/book.memcached.php) for a list of
API calls you can make against MemCachier.

### PHP Session Support

You can configure PHP to store sessions in MemCachier as follows.

First, start by configuring an appropriate `.user.ini` in your document
**IF(direct)**
root.
**ENDIF**
**IF(heroku)**
root (see [heroku ini
guide](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/custom-php-settings#user-ini-files-recommended)).
**ENDIF**
It should contain the following:

```php
session.save_handler=memcached
memcached.sess_sasl_username=${MEMCACHIER_USERNAME}
memcached.sess_sasl_password=${MEMCACHIER_PASSWORD}

; PHP 7
memcached.sess_binary_protocol=1
session.save_path="${MEMCACHIER_SERVERS}"
memcached.sess_persistent=On

; PHP 5 (uncomment the following and replace PHP 7 section above)
;memcached.sess_binary=1
;session.save_path="PERSISTENT=myapp_session ${MEMCACHIER_SERVERS}"
```

In your code you should then be able to run:

```php
// Enable MemCachier session support
session_start();
$_SESSION['test'] = 42;
```

### Alternative PHP Client -- MemcacheSASL

**IF(direct)**
This is not our recommended client for using MemCachier from PHP. We recommend
the [php memcached](#php-memcached-client) client. However, it is an easier
client to use as it's a pure PHP implementation while the recommended php client
requires a C extension to be installed with
[SASL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_Authentication_and_Security_Layer)
support. It doesn't support multiple proxy servers like the memcached client
but is otherwise quite good.
**ENDIF**

**IF(heroku)**
>note
>This is not our recommended client for using MemCachier from PHP. We
>recommend the [php memcached](#php-memcached-client) client. However, it may work
>better for you if you are running into any problems with the php
>memcached client.
**ENDIF**

You should first install the
[PHPMemcacheSASL](https://github.com/memcachier/PHPMemcacheSASL) client. You
can either grab the code directly or use [composer](https://getcomposer.org/)
for package management. We suggest composer.

First, if using composer, you'll need to modify your `composer.json` file to
include the module:

```js
{
    "require": {
        "php": ">=5.3.2",
        "memcachier/php-memcache-sasl": ">=1.0.1"
    }
}
```

Then, you can connect to MemCachier using the client:

```php
require 'vendor/autoload.php';
use MemCachier\MemcacheSASL;

// Create client
$m = new MemcacheSASL();
$servers = explode(",", getenv("MEMCACHIER_SERVERS"));
foreach ($servers as $s) {
    $parts = explode(":", $s);
    $m->addServer($parts[0], $parts[1]);
}

// Setup authentication
$m->setSaslAuthData( getenv("MEMCACHIER_USERNAME")
                   , getenv("MEMCACHIER_PASSWORD") );

// Test client
$m->add("foo", "bar");
echo $m->get("foo");
```

**IF(direct)**
<p class="alert alert-info">
The values for <code>MEMCACHIER_SERVERS</code>, <code>MEMCACHIER_USERNAME</code>, and
<code>MEMCACHIER_PASSWORD</code> are listed on your
<a href="https://www.memcachier.com/caches">cache overview page</a>. Make sure to add them
to your environment.
</p>
**ENDIF**

Commit message:

Add title and description front matter

documentation/clients/php/php.md, after:

---
title: "Documentation: PHP"
description: "Documentation for using MemCachier with PHP"
---

## PHP

**IF(direct)**
<p class="alert alert-info">
We’ve built a small PHP example here:
<a href="https://github.com/memcachier/examples-php">MemCachier PHP sample app</a>.
</p>
**ENDIF**

**IF(heroku)**
>callout
>We’ve built a small PHP example.
><a class="github-source-code" href="https://github.com/memcachier/examples-php">Source code</a> or
>[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.png)](https://heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/memcachier/examples-php).

>callout
>Heroku recently improved their PHP support, please see their
>[documentation](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/php-support)
>if you aren't familiar with the new model.
**ENDIF**

### PHP Memcached Client

We recommended you use the [PHP Memcached
client](http://www.php.net/manual/en/book.memcached.php) to connect with
MemCachier. It supports the full protocol and has great performance.
**IF(direct)**
We also recommend that you use the [composer dependency
manager](https://getcomposer.org/) for PHP, although that is up to you.
**ENDIF**

The `php-memcached` client is not a pure PHP client but a PECL extension that
makes use of `libmemcached`. You thus need to install `php-memcached` via your
OS package manager. In older operating systems you have to make sure libmemcached
has SASL authentication support enabled but for newer operating systems such as
Ubuntu 16.04 this is the default. After the installation you need to uncomment
`;extension=memcached.so` in `/etc/php/conf.d/memcached.ini` for the extension
to work.
**IF(heroku)**
On Heroku this dependency is already installed and configured.
**ENDIF**

**IF(direct)**
First, if using composer, you'll need to modify your `composer.json` file to
include the module:
**ENDIF**

**IF(heroku)**
First, you'll need to modify your `composer.json` file to include the
module:
**ENDIF**

```js
{
    "require": {
        "php": ">=5.3.2",
        "ext-memcached": "*"
    }
}
```

Next, ensure that your new requirements are "frozen" to `composer.lock` by running:

```term
$ composer update
```

**IF(heroku)**
For more information on enabling the extension and potential troubleshooting (e.g. when you don't have the `memcached` extension available on your local computer), refer to the [using optional extensions extensions](/articles/php-support#using-optional-extensions) section of Heroku's PHP reference documentation.
**ENDIF**

Then, you can connect to MemCachier using the client:

```php
require 'vendor/autoload.php';

// create a new persistent client
$m = new Memcached("memcached_pool");
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_BINARY_PROTOCOL, TRUE);

// some nicer default options
// - nicer TCP options
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_TCP_NODELAY, TRUE);
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_NO_BLOCK, FALSE);
// - timeouts
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_CONNECT_TIMEOUT, 2000);    // ms
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_POLL_TIMEOUT, 2000);       // ms
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_RECV_TIMEOUT, 750 * 1000); // us
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_SEND_TIMEOUT, 750 * 1000); // us
// - better failover
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_DISTRIBUTION, Memcached::DISTRIBUTION_CONSISTENT);
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_LIBKETAMA_COMPATIBLE, TRUE);
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_RETRY_TIMEOUT, 2);
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_SERVER_FAILURE_LIMIT, 1);
$m->setOption(Memcached::OPT_AUTO_EJECT_HOSTS, TRUE);

// setup authentication
$m->setSaslAuthData( getenv("MEMCACHIER_USERNAME")
                   , getenv("MEMCACHIER_PASSWORD") );

// We use a consistent connection to memcached, so only add in the
// servers first time through otherwise we end up duplicating our
// connections to the server.
if (!$m->getServerList()) {
    // parse server config
    $servers = explode(",", getenv("MEMCACHIER_SERVERS"));
    foreach ($servers as $s) {
        $parts = explode(":", $s);
        $m->addServer($parts[0], $parts[1]);
    }
}
```

**IF(direct)**
<p class="alert alert-info">
The values for <code>MEMCACHIER_SERVERS</code>, <code>MEMCACHIER_USERNAME</code>, and
<code>MEMCACHIER_PASSWORD</code> are listed on your
<a href="https://www.memcachier.com/caches">cache overview page</a>. Make sure to add them
to your environment.
</p>
**ENDIF**

You should look at the PHP [Memcached client
documentation](http://www.php.net/manual/en/book.memcached.php) for a list of
API calls you can make against MemCachier.

### PHP Session Support

You can configure PHP to store sessions in MemCachier as follows.

First, start by configuring an appropriate `.user.ini` in your document
**IF(direct)**
root.
**ENDIF**
**IF(heroku)**
root (see [heroku ini
guide](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/custom-php-settings#user-ini-files-recommended)).
**ENDIF**
It should contain the following:

```php
session.save_handler=memcached
memcached.sess_sasl_username=${MEMCACHIER_USERNAME}
memcached.sess_sasl_password=${MEMCACHIER_PASSWORD}

; PHP 7
memcached.sess_binary_protocol=1
session.save_path="${MEMCACHIER_SERVERS}"
memcached.sess_persistent=On

; PHP 5 (uncomment the following and replace PHP 7 section above)
;memcached.sess_binary=1
;session.save_path="PERSISTENT=myapp_session ${MEMCACHIER_SERVERS}"
```

In your code you should then be able to run:

```php
// Enable MemCachier session support
session_start();
$_SESSION['test'] = 42;
```

### Alternative PHP Client -- MemcacheSASL

**IF(direct)**
This is not our recommended client for using MemCachier from PHP. We recommend
the [php memcached](#php-memcached-client) client. However, it is an easier
client to use as it's a pure PHP implementation while the recommended php client
requires a C extension to be installed with
[SASL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_Authentication_and_Security_Layer)
support. It doesn't support multiple proxy servers like the memcached client
but is otherwise quite good.
**ENDIF**

**IF(heroku)**
>note
>This is not our recommended client for using MemCachier from PHP. We
>recommend the [php memcached](#php-memcached-client) client. However, it may work
>better for you if you are running into any problems with the php
>memcached client.
**ENDIF**

You should first install the
[PHPMemcacheSASL](https://github.com/memcachier/PHPMemcacheSASL) client. You
can either grab the code directly or use [composer](https://getcomposer.org/)
for package management. We suggest composer.

First, if using composer, you'll need to modify your `composer.json` file to
include the module:

```js
{
    "require": {
        "php": ">=5.3.2",
        "memcachier/php-memcache-sasl": ">=1.0.1"
    }
}
```

Then, you can connect to MemCachier using the client:

```php
require 'vendor/autoload.php';
use MemCachier\MemcacheSASL;

// Create client
$m = new MemcacheSASL();
$servers = explode(",", getenv("MEMCACHIER_SERVERS"));
foreach ($servers as $s) {
    $parts = explode(":", $s);
    $m->addServer($parts[0], $parts[1]);
}

// Setup authentication
$m->setSaslAuthData( getenv("MEMCACHIER_USERNAME")
                   , getenv("MEMCACHIER_PASSWORD") );

// Test client
$m->add("foo", "bar");
echo $m->get("foo");
```

**IF(direct)**
<p class="alert alert-info">
The values for <code>MEMCACHIER_SERVERS</code>, <code>MEMCACHIER_USERNAME</code>, and
<code>MEMCACHIER_PASSWORD</code> are listed on your
<a href="https://www.memcachier.com/caches">cache overview page</a>. Make sure to add them
to your environment.
</p>
**ENDIF**
